Add documentation on how to restrict cross namespace associations (#2635)
elastic/cloud-on-k8s: docs/restrict-cross-namespace-associations.asciidoc

ifdef::env-github[]
****
link:https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud-on-k8s/master/restrict-cross-namespace-associations.html[View this document on the Elastic website]
****
endif::[]
[id="{p}-restrict-cross-namespace-associations"]
=== Restrict cross namespace resource associations

> By default, associations can be created between any resources as long as they are deployed in some namespaces managed by the same ECK instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, associations can be created between any resources as long as they are deployed in namespaces managed by the same ECK instance.
```

I also wonder if it's clearer to just say "managed by the same instance of the ECK operator". This is hard to explain simply :/

Reviewer 2: Can we turn into active voice?
```suggestion
By default, you can create associations between any resources as long as they are deployed in some namespaces managed by the same ECK instance.
```

> This is true, for example, when using the `elasticsearchRef` field in order to automatically configure and establish a trust relationship between Kibana and Elasticsearch. If a user can create a Kibana instance in a namespace managed by ECK then this Kibana instance can be associated with any Elasticsearch cluster deployed in another namespace managed by the same ECK instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is true, for example, when using the `elasticsearchRef` field in order to automatically configure and establish a trust relationship between Kibana and Elasticsearch. If a user can create a Kibana instance in a namespace managed by ECK, then this Kibana instance can be associated with any Elasticsearch cluster deployed in another namespace managed by the same ECK instance.
```

Reviewer: It might also be worth calling out that this is possible by default even if the user only has permissions to edit the Kibana and not the Elasticsearch resource

Reviewer 2: - in order to... => to
- If a user can => if you can

Author: @alaudazzi  re. "user" vs "you" and the use of the passive voice:
I think this part is dedicated to someone who is administering ECK. In this particular situation I wonder if it is not better to keep the term "user" because the idea here is to explain to the admin: "This is what your users can do by default"

Happy to change my mind though :)

This section describes how you can restrict the associations that can be created between resources managed by ECK.

[float]
==== Enabling cross namespace association restriction

> This feature is disabled by default. To enable it start the operator with the `--enforce-rbac-on-refs` flag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature is disabled by default. To enable it, start the operator with the `--enforce-rbac-on-refs` flag.
```

> NOTE: This feature only provides an access control for resources deployed across two different namespaces. Associations can still be freely created between resources deployed in a same namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: This feature only provides an access control for resources deployed across two different namespaces. You can still create associations between resources deployed in a same namespace.
```

Reviewer 3: This needs to be: "in **the** same namespace. "

> Once enabled, associations are allowed to be created as long as the `ServiceAccount` specified in the associated resources can execute a `get` request against the referenced Elasticsearch object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once enabled, associations can be created as long as the `ServiceAccount` specified in the associated resources runs a `get` request against the referenced Elasticsearch object.
```

> IMPORTANT: ECK unbinds any association that is not allowed. If you have some existing associations do not enable this feature without having created the required `Roles` and `RoleBindings` as described in the following sections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: ECK unbinds any association that is not allowed. If you have some existing associations, do not enable this feature without creating the required `Roles` and `RoleBindings` as described in the following sections.
```

[float]

> === Specify a ServiceAccount in an associated resource

Reviewer 3: heading hierarchy is inconsistent, this is higher than the preceding "Enabling cross namespace association restriction" section, probably not intentional

Reviewer 3: I find this heading slightly confusing, even though I think I  know what you mean. But I don't have a good replacement suggestion right now. Maybe "Restricting access to associated resources"? Even though you don't need to specify a service account for that, so maybe just move it to the next section?

First create a `ServiceAccount`:

[source,sh]
----
> kubectl create serviceaccount associated-resource-sa
----

Then set the `serviceAccountName` field in the associated resource to specify which `ServiceAccount` is used to create the association:

[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
apiVersion: <kind>.k8s.elastic.co/{eck_crd_version}
kind: <Kind>
metadata:
  name: associated-resource
  namespace: associated-resource-ns
spec:
 ...
  elasticsearchRef:
    name: "elasticsearch-sample"
    namespace: "elasticsearch-ns"
  # Service account used by this resource to get access to an Elasticsearch cluster
  serviceAccountName: associated-resource-sa
----

> NOTE: You can find https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/blob/master/config/recipes/associations-rbac/apm_es_kibana_rbac.yaml[a complete example in the ECK GitHub repository].

Reviewer 3: Does this need to be a NOTE?

NOTE: If the `serviceAccountName` is not set then ECK uses the `ServiceAccount` called `default`

[float]
==== Allowing associations to be created

> Create a `ClusterRole` to allow a `get` request to be executed against some Elasticsearch objects:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `ClusterRole` to allow a `get` request to be run against some Elasticsearch objects:
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: elasticsearch-association
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - elasticsearch.k8s.elastic.co
    resources:
      - elasticsearches
    verbs:
      - get
----

> Then, in order to allow the `ServiceAccount` of the associated resource to use this role create the following `RoleBinding`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, to allow the `ServiceAccount` of the associated resource to use this role, create the following `RoleBinding`:
```

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: allow-associated-resource-from-remote-namespace
  namespace: elasticsearch-ns
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: elasticsearch-association
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: associated-resource-sa
    namespace: associated-resource-ns
----

> The associated resource `associated-resource` is now allowed to create an association with any Elasticsearch cluster in the namespace `elasticsearch-ns`.

Reviewer 3: I wonder if readers have at this point already forgotten what we mean by "associated resource" and whether it would be better to use a a concrete example instead (i.e. Kibana or APMServer) and mention that it applies to any association between resources we support?

Author: I added the following sentence right after the resource example:

> In the above example, `associated-resource` can be of any `Kind` that requires an association to be created (e.g. `Kibana` or the `APMServer`).

Let me know if you think it's enough

[id="{p}-restrict-cross-namespace-associations"]
=== Restrict cross namespace resource associations

By default, associations can be created between any resources as long as they are deployed in namespaces managed by the same ECK instance.

> This is true, for example, when using the `elasticsearchRef` field to automatically configure and establish a trust relationship between Kibana and Elasticsearch. If a user can create a Kibana instance in a namespace managed by ECK, then this Kibana instance can be associated with any Elasticsearch cluster deployed in another namespace managed by the same ECK instance. Even if the user only has permissions to edit Kibana and not the Elasticsearch resource.

Reviewer 3: I _think_ the additional sentence starting with "Even if" is not corrent. IIUC "Even if" is a dependent clause and you need to have another clause in that sentence it cannot stand on its own. So either add another main clause or join it to the preceding sentence.

This section describes how you can restrict the associations that can be created between resources managed by ECK.

[float]
==== Enabling cross namespace association restriction

This feature is disabled by default. To enable it, start the operator with the `--enforce-rbac-on-refs` flag.

NOTE: This feature only provides an access control for resources deployed across two different namespaces. Associations can still be freely created between resources deployed in a same namespace.

> Once enabled, associations can be created as long as the `ServiceAccount` specified in the associated resources can execute a `get` request against the referenced Elasticsearch object.

Reviewer 3: maybe "HTTP GET request" or if you want to phrase it in terms of Kubernetes RBAC: "`get` resource request" ? Not sure myself, was just confused by the lowercase `get` I guess...

> IMPORTANT: ECK unbinds any association that is not allowed. If you have some existing associations, do not enable this feature without creating the required `Roles` and `RoleBindings` as described in the following sections.

Reviewer 3: remove "some"

Reviewer 3: replace "unbinds" with "removes"

[float]
==== Allowing associations to be created

> Create a `ClusterRole` to allow a `get` request to be run against some Elasticsearch objects:

Reviewer 3: remove "some"
